out=very-vile-fairy-file-invisiclues.htm
!Very Vile Fairy File HTML Clues
->c:/games/inform/very-vile-fairy-file Materials/Release
==end header
>WORST WHEW
>>WET WOOD
?What do I do here?
Regular directions don't work.
?What do I do with the zigzag rig rag?
You can change it, but it might hold you back while you're trying to find your way through.
If you find the right thing, the game will reject your command and file it away for later.
The theme of the game is alliterative rhymes.
It can become a...
BIG BAG.
?What is the Leet Learner for?
It is also a CHEAT CHURNER.
You may notice different colors written on it.
You can use it to get hints about what sort of letter/pronunciation swaps you need to make.
Blue means you need to add letters to both words (CONCEIT CONCERNER).
Green means you add a letter to one word (CHEAT CHURNER).
Yellow is neutral. (MEET MOURNER).
Orange means you need to subtract, partially (BEAT BURNER).
Red means you need to subtract letters from two words (EAT EARNER).
Brown means you need to add one letter and subtract another (TREAT TURNER).
>>VINED VAULT
?I'm perfectly trapped! What to do?
Look for a weakness.
FIND FAULT.
?The mean mass is in my way!
It's so unnatural and inorganic.
Make it into something less intimidating...
GREEN GRASS.
>>PO' PIT
?Why am I discouraged by the trash trap?
You need to deal with the whole room first.
?What's the row writ for?
It can boost your confidence.
It fits in with the Po' Pit.
GROW GRIT.
?Okay, now I have confidence, how do I get past the trash trap?
The cache cap is a bit ... off.
If you use the learner on it, it is only partially negative (orange,) but the trash trap is fully negative (red.) That means one word is "cap" and another is less than five letters.
Also, the gash gap is yellow. So that's four and three letters.
MASH MAP works. BASH BAP is an alternate.
>>TRIM TRAM
?How can I find a fee? Or stop worrying?
Look into yourself.
MIND ME.
?How do I get going now that I'm calm?
What rhymes alliteratively with trim tram?
FLIM FLAM. One or two words.
Alternatively, SKIM SCAM.
>PIDDLING PAIN
>>FUN FEN
?How I go back in the Done Den?
You can't, and you don't need to.
?Can I go north?
Yes. You need to solve a puzzle.
?What is the tall tree for?
It could provide a passage over the more treacherous parts of the fen.
Have you played Trinity? Do you remember what a tree did?
Of course, you can just note a rhyme, too...
FALL FREE.
?What is the deal with going east or west?
They are joke death rooms.
I hope they are funny jokes.
?Can I do anything with the Wry Wall?
You don't need to.
But there is a bonus point.
You can expose it for its untruths.
LIE LOL.
?What is the deal with Cark Cliff?
It is a bonus point.
But it's one pretty far down in the game.
And it's pretty obscure.
You need the Wild Weed.
Then, SPARK SPLIFF.
>>REAL REAR
?Can I enter the Sage Sea?
Not with directional commands.
You need to show wisdom, and it will part and open for you.
After that, you don't need it.
?What is the significance of the steel steer and peeling pier and ceiling seer?
Just to make it clear what the rhymes should be.
They also provide an alternate solution, with "-ing" at the end.
Also, you need something watching over you as you perform your actions.
?What do I do here?
The leet learner will tell you not only how many letters are in the action(s) you need to perform but also if there are any left.
There are three things to do. Two can be done right away.
First, you need to FEEL FEAR.
But now you're fearful, you need to get rid of that fear properly.
DEAL DEAR.
The Sage Sea will give you a Cage Key.
?What is the third action, and why can't I do it yet?
You won't need it until a certain point.
A point when you've been damaged.
Then you'll need to regain stamina.
I mean health.
And HEAL HERE.
>>CREASED CROSS
?Is there anything to do here?
Maybe not right away.
?I tried to summon something, but it says I'm not protected enough yet!
You need a few items.
First, the Hard Hat.
?Summon something?! What does that mean?
You can summon an important enemy based on the cross's name.
The BEAST BOSS.
>VALE VERMINOUS
>>GASSED GAP
?It seems like the gassed gap can be changed, but how do I do so?
You can't just say LAST LAP.
You need to do something.
There's an item that seems ideal for here.
It isn't quite a double rhyme, but with the right verb, it could be.
The cool cap.
CAST CAP.
?How do I get by Wreaker Russell?
There are two things you need to do.
Disarm him and decrease his physique.
The good gun is easiest to deal with.
What if it was made out of something not so good for shooting?
WOOD ONE.
Now what if Russell were not so strong?
MEEKER MUSCLE.
?Does anything prevent me from going north once Russell is gone?
No.
You can even come back south until you dispose of the next bad guys.
>>AIRY ISLE
?How do I get rid of the Bot Board?
You need help.
A group of people, as well as a leader more capable than yourself.
The Bot Board has rhyming cousins.
The HOT HORDE will outnumber the board, but they are too unruly.
So you need a leader that double-rhymes bot board.
LOT LORD.
But you need one more thing! A battle cry!
GOT GORED.
?How do I get to the next area with the Bot Board defeated?
The Go Gate looks pretty tempting to just enter.
Did you? Oops.
If you did, or you examined it, you know it has a Grow Grate.
Entering right away is not cautious enough.
You need to delay a bit. But Z or WAIT doesn't quite work.
WHOAH WAIT.
?Do I need to prep before jumping to the next area?
No, unless you want to get all the points in the game.
?Can I come back once I move to the next area?
No, but you don't need to, unless you want maximum points.
>>TARRY TILE
?Why can't I deal with/take the fairy file yet?
You need to remove distractions and be at peace and happy.
There are three things left to do.
They need to be done in a certain order, but the game will track whatever you did out of order.
?Help! The horn won't shut up!
It has its flaws.
You need to examine the well worn hell horn.
Not just examine it. Look for it.
You can TELL TORN.
?The horn is gone, but I'm still not up to ... whatever I have to do. What's up?
The tarry tile can become a nicer place.
A happy one.
MERRY MILE.
?How do I deal with the fairy file?
You're happy now, but you need to remove hate that dwells in you.
Tuck it away in a corner, if you will.
You may note you can use this command at any time. Maybe you already did.
Or BURY BILE.
